Updated Octopus Server Docker Windows/Linux Pages (#630)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/installation/octopus-in-container/troubleshooting-octopus-server-in-a-container.md

---
title: Troubleshooting Octopus Server in a Container

> description: An Octopus Deploy Server instance can be run directly from within a container.

Reviewer: This needs a bit of a tweak - looks like its a copy and paste?

position: 10
---

> ## Accept the EULA

Reviewer: Maybe treat the headings as mini suggestions?

```suggestion
## Ensure you've accepted the EULA
```

When you create an Octopus Server container, you must agree with the [Octopus Deploy EULA](https://octopus.com/company/legal).

If you get an error similar to:

```
ERROR: You must accept the EULA
```

> You must pass `--env "ACCEPT_EULA=Y"` when using `docker run` with an Octopus Server image. By passing this value, you accept the Octopus Deploy EULA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must pass `--env "ACCEPT_EULA=Y"` when using `docker run` with an Octopus Server image. By passing this value, you signify acceptance of the Octopus Deploy EULA.
```

Reviewer 2: `signify acceptance of` feels quite wordy. We could go with:
```suggestion
You must pass `--env "ACCEPT_EULA=Y"` when using `docker run` with an Octopus Server image to accept the Octopus Deploy EULA.
```

> ## Windows Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ensure you're using the correct Docker engine
```
_struggling for the words a bit here_

Reviewer 2: Maybe: 
```suggestion
## Use the correct Docker engine
```

> When running Windows Containers, you must have Docker set to use Windows Containers and not Linux Containers. Please refer to [switching to Windows Containers](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers) documentation for switching to Windows Containers.

Reviewer: This is a bit of a challenging one... Consider rewording a bit to include something about running a windows container on a windows host (as its possible to run both windows and linux containers on windows (as i'm sure you know)).

"if you are running a windows container on a windows host, make sure you have..."

Also, can you include the error message you get when this goes wrong? will help people when googling.

> ### Issues setting the volume

Reviewer: _maybe_ change headings to match error messages???
```suggestion
### Invalid Volume Specification
```

You should create your Windows Containers with a volume mount so files such as logs can be stored outside the container. If you get an error similar to:

```

> Error response from daemon: invalid volume specification: '...': invalid mount config for type "bind": bind source path does not exist: ...

Reviewer: nice

```

Please ensure that the folder you are mounting exists on the host machine and try again. For example, if you passed `--volume "C:\Octopus\Data:C:\Octopus"` then `C:\Octopus\Data` needs to exist on the host machine.

> ## Linux Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linux Containers on Windows
```

> When you run Linux Containers on Windows, you must have Docker set to use Linux Containers and not Windows Containers. Please refer to [switching to Linux Containers](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers) documentation for switching to Linux Containers.

Reviewer: How can people know if they are running windows containers on windows or linux containers on windows?

> ### Access Bash within the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How can I install other softare in the container?
```

> When you have the container running, it could be a requirement to install other programs within it or read/modify files within. For example, you may want to have PowerShell Core available to run PowerShell on the Octopus Server. To access bash within the container first run the command `docker ps` to find your container, then copy the Container ID. Next run `docker exec -it CONTAINERID /bin/bash` replace CONTAINERID with your copied Container ID to enter bash within the container. From there, you can install, remove or access anything else that is required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have the container running, you may need to install other programs within it or read/modify files within. For example, you may want to have [PowerShell Core](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell) available to run PowerShell scripts on the Octopus Server. To access bash within the container first run the command `docker ps` to find your container, then copy the Container ID. Next run `docker exec -it <container id> /bin/bash` to enter bash within the container. From there, you can install, remove or access anything else that is required. 
```

I'd actually prefer to see this suggesting they build a docker file on top of ours as the recommended approach. The "connect to the docker container" approach is very short term and goes against the "docker ethos" a bit - the docker container should be considered immutable. (happy to see it stay as an option, but prefer it not to be option number 1)

---
title: Troubleshooting Octopus Server in a Container
description: An Octopus Deploy Server instance can be run directly from within a container.

> position: 1

Reviewer 2: Changed the position so this is listed after the other docs in this section. 
```suggestion
position: 10
```

```
or

```
image operating system "linux" cannot be used on this platform.
```
then you likely are using an Windows image with Linux Containers or a Linux image with Windows Containers.

When running Containers on a Windows host machine, there is the options to run both Windows Containers and Linux Containers. Docker must be set to the correct container mode for the image you are using. Please refer to [switching between Windows and Linux Containers](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers) documentation to learn how to switch between them.

### Invalid Volume Specification

You should create your Windows Containers with a volume mount so files such as logs can be stored outside the container. If you get an error similar to:

```
Error response from daemon: invalid volume specification: '...': invalid mount config for type "bind": bind source path does not exist: ...
```

Please ensure that the folder you are mounting exists on the host machine and try again. For example, if you passed `--volume "C:\Octopus\Data:C:\Octopus"` then `C:\Octopus\Data` needs to exist on the host machine.

> ### How can I install other softare in the container?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How can I install other software in the container?
```
